---
layout: post
mathjax: true
title: "About me"
---

My name is Jérôme Bétrisey and I come from the canton of Valais, in Switzerland. I did my studies at the ETH Zürich in Switzerland, where I wrote my master thesis under the supervision of Prof. Hans Martin Schmid. During that time, I studied the opacity properties of circumstellar disks based on photometric and polarimetric measurements. The goal of my master thesis was to better understand the correlation between the star energy reemitted by the outer disk(s) in the spectral energy distribution and the polarized disk/star contrast. This project sparked my interest in stellar characterisation that was the main limiting factor of this study. I am currently a last year PhD student in the stellar group of Prof. Georges Meynet at the Geneva Observatory in Switzerland, under the supervision of Prof. Georges Meynet and Dr. Gaël Buldgen. I am specialising in seismic inferences of the internal stellar structure and I am presently mainly focusing on their applications to main-sequence solar-type stars.

My goal is to improve stellar characterisation in order to achieve a more precise and accurate stellar mass, radius and age, crucial for the preparation of the PLATO mission. I can then use these improved stellar parameters to do multidisciplinary applications in exoplanetology, where I can revise the planetary parameters, or in galactic archaeology. This goal is achieved by following two guidelines, improving the modelling strategies and improving the physics in stellar models. During the first years of my PhD, I followed these guidelines, therefore improving the current modelling strategies and developing new approaches to constrain the physics in stellar models. Hence, I refined my modelling strategy, that combines seismic inversions, and global and local minimisations, to achieve stellar parameters with an unprecedented robustness and accuracy. In particular, I demonstrated that my modelling strategy efficiently damps the so-called surface effects which are a recurrent issue in asteroseismology. I showed that my modelling strategy could easily meet the PLATO mission precision requirements for a benchmark target ([Bétrisey et al. 2022](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2022A%26A...659A..56B/abstract)), as well as for 10 *Kepler* targets with high-quality data (Bétrisey et al. submitted), and is therefore compatible with a large-scale application ([Bétrisey et al. 2023b](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2023arXiv230604509B/abstract)). In addition, this benchmark target was also hosting an exoplanet of theoretical importance, for which I could revise the planetary parameters, achieving an unprecedented precision compared to the previous studies of this system. In parallel, I developed a new inversion based for the first time on frequency separation ratios instead of individual frequencies to constrain the properties of convective cores that is the main limiting factor of uncertainty on the determination of the stellar age ([Bétrisey & Buldgen 2022](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2022A%26A...663A..92B/abstract)). Moreover, I collaborated on a review for the prestigious journal Frontiers in Astronomy and Space Sciences about seismic inversions ([Buldgen et al. 2022](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2022FrASS...9.2373B/abstract)) to demonstrate the capabilities of such techniques  and popularise their usage by the community. I also applied my modelling technique to constrain the transport of angular momentum in main-sequence F-type stars. I found that there exists a mass regime corresponding to stars around \\( \sim 6000-6200\ \mathrm{K} \\) for which it is difficult to constrain the AM transport processes, unlike for hotter, Gamma Dor stars or colder, less massive solar analogues, contrary to the expectations from the literature ([Bétrisey et al. 2023a](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2023A%26A...673L..11B/abstract)).

I presented my works to the community by attended multiple conferences and I could therefore build a solid network of collaborators across the world. Moreover, I engaged myself to promote knowledge transfer to the younger generation by supervising several juniors as part of practical projects at Bachelor level. I also got involved in outreach activities by guiding visits of the Geneva observatory, and gave a talk at the general assembly of the Academic Society of Valais, that awarded me an academic prize for my master thesis.
